How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

No idea yet. I hope they explain more later. 

I think that the WD is simply a directory that you're doing work in. The staging area is where you keep the files you're going to include in a commit. The repository is where the commits are stored and managed.

Commands and their meanings:
git diff (with no arguments) compares the working directory to the staging area
git diff --staged compares the staging area with the head(?) or last commit
git diff commitid1 commitid two compares two commits in the repository

git reset --hard undoes all changes to the staging and working directory

git checkout master for when the head is separated
git checkout (name) for switching to a different branch

git branch - shows all branches for the repository
git branch (name) creates a new branch of that name

git branch -d (name of branch) deletes the label of the branch. If the branch has been merged, this should result in 

git show - show the changes introduced in a commit compared to its parent. Very useful when comparing as you may not know what the parent of the commit was when there have been branches

git merge (to branch) (from branch) merges two branches
git merge (to branch) you don't need the from branch if you are currentl y in the branch you want to merge
git merge --abort if you have conflicts (ie something wasn't committed yet) then you can abort and restart the process

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

When you make a change to a file, immediately add it to the staging area. When you're finished working on the change, commit it. Don't wait until you're done all the changes to add them to the staging area

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

Whenever you want to experiment with something different or when you copy a repository from someone else to make changes yourself. Then you can attempt to merge later. Whenever making a fairly large change that might take long enough to complete that it would affect the creation and release of other stuff.

